From Hanselman is.com. It's
Hansel minutes or weekly discussion
with web developer and technologists.
Scott Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number 19 recorded Monday, May 29th, 2006.
Support for Hanselman it's just
provided by COVID Smith tools,
makers of code Smith and
extensible template base code generator
for.net. Generate your code your
way faster. online@covidsmithtoolsdotcomandbypeterbloom.com. Start with
better controls. Finish with better
sites online@peterblum.com. Support is also
provided by.net developers journal the
world's leading.net developer magazine online
at www dot  dot
com. In this episode, the
focus is Victoria. Hi, this
is Carl Franklin, and you're listening
to Hansel minutes. Here we
are again for another great
show, Scott. Hi, how are
you? How are you, sir?
I'm doing great. Happy holidays.
Happy holidays to you too.
It was a good weekend
twice. So we're talking about
BitTorrent today. BitTorrent video, squishing
things you can do with
BitTorrent, optimizing, but torn how
it works and various legalities
And now would be a
good time for a disclaimer.
Would it not? It would
indeed. Yeah, we cannot. We
are not lawyers. We are
not legal nor illegal people.
We are just guys talking
to you on your iPods,
hopefully in double speed. If
you're not wasting your time
and we have no way
to know whether this is
legal or not legal. Carl,
what have you found in
your research? Well, I've found
that certain things are illegal
to share and certain things
are not. And the list
of legal things is small.
Indeed. However, there are some
major television studios that are
now coming out with and
media companies that are now
coming out with BitTorrent feeds,
but you know, they have
their own terms and conditions
there. Isn't just blanket stuff.
I've heard people say that,
you know, fair use means
if I can watch something
on my TV, then I
don't feel bad going to
download it if I missed
it. And while that may
be true, it still may
be illegal. So you really
need to check your laws
for the particular media that
you're trying to download. And
it's fair to say that
using BitTorrent and the BitTorrent
protocol is certainly a legal
thing. Yes. It really gets
into the gray area when
you download something odd. Yeah.
It's all a matter of
what you're downloading. Yeah. Don't
think poorly of the protocol,
but like you said, Warner
brothers is going to allow
downloads of their shows. There's
information about that at shrink
stir slash F H, Z.
Yeah. On Warner brothers agreement
with BitTorrent. Okay. So, so
what is BitTorrent? What is
it BitTorrent is I call
it kind of the equivalent
of a protocol. If a
protocol could shout, right? Victorian
is a bunch of people
getting into a room and
going, Hey, I've got this
version of this file. And
ah, and then just screaming
and yelling. You ever seen
the stock market guys on
wall street and they're just
screaming and yelling at each
other. Yeah, It's exactly. It's
the stock market protocol. It's
basically, there's a hundred gig
file. Some giant file I
want to get and you
know, downloading it classically from
Carl Franklin studios means that I
tie up one of your
connections. And if you want
to distribute that to a
million people, let's say it's
a really popular file. The
more people that want to
get that file, the fewer
can you get squeezed. So
BitTorrent tries to solve that
problem of the more people
who want it, the fewer
due to the more people
who want it, the more
people who can BitTorrent BitTorrent
works better with popular files
Also works really, really well
with podcast clients because a
podcast client will typically wake
up when there's new stuff,
right? And when there's new
stuff, you have thousands, possibly
tens of thousands of clients
trying to download the same
file at the same time.
And if those files are
big, why BitTorrent is just
perfect for that? Because the
rule a bit torn is
the more people are downloading
simultaneously, the faster everybody gets
the file. That's a simple
rule. You can remember Exactly
the protocol says, Hey, I've
got, you know, parts two,
six, and eight of this
file and you've got parts
three, four, and two or
300, three, four, and five,
right. Let's exchange them. So
you may, for a very
long period of time have
just chunks of a file.
And another guy may have
chunks and no one in
the swarm has the entire
file yet. But perhaps amongst
the group of us, the
union of us, we have
the whole file. If we
stay online long enough, we'll
all get the, the complete,
the complete file. Right. And
after you've got the complete
file, you've got to stay
online though, because, and there's
an unspoken moral code within
BitTorrent. So I've seen it,
not unspoken. It's baked into
the protocol. That's totally. But
if you leech, if you
leach, then you'll be less
likely to get a good
bandwidth downloads later. So once
you're done downloading something with
a BitTorrent client, stay online
for at least as long
as you were on before,
right. To seed, to seed
the swarm. The swarm is
the group of computers that
are all kind of simultaneously
sending and receiving that file
and seeding is when you've
got the complete copy. And
in order for BitTorrent to
work, you have to have
at least one person in
the swarm have a complete
copy of the, of the
file and be a Cedar.
So actually we're super Cedars
for you. Yeah, that's right
at . We distribute all
of our content with BitTorrent
as an option, and we've
put together a bunch of
pop ambassadors of which Scott
is one. And these guys
basically have some decent bandwidth.
Doesn't have to be huge
bandwidth, but you know, cable
modem, bandwidth, and they've put
together a bit torrent client.
That's looking at all of
the feeds that we offer.
And so basically whenever ever
we publish any new show,
these guys have agreed to,
you know, download it and
seed it. And so what
we end up with is
for every show we have
at least 25 30 seeds,
you know, and then on
top of that, we've got,
you know, more people that
aren't plop ambassadors that are
just using BitTorrent and using
it correctly. And we also
stagger the RSS so that
when we first publish a
show, all of the only,
only the ambassadors get access
to it. And when they're
seated about a half an
hour later, then we actually
publish the main feed and
everybody else who's looking at,
it gets really, really fast,
Right? So the fastest way
to get any of the
shows including this one is
with BitTorrent. One of the
problems of course, is that
BitTorrent uses a lot of
ports and oftentimes most corporate
offices won't allow BitTorrent BitTorrent
for you as a personal
protocol, as something that you'll
use at home is really
great, but because you're connecting
to a lot of other
computers, a lot of other
peers you'll have a number
of problems, or you may
have a number of problems
you won't want to deal
with. The first one is
that your router, whatever router
you may be using may
not be prepared for such
an aggressive protocol opening. So
many outgoing and incoming ports.
So there's some optimizations that
you can do on various
firmwares. And if you just
search for the name of
your firmware or the name
of your router and BitTorrent
optimization, you'll find it. I've
got an article about LyncSys
firmware optimization using the DDRT
firmware at shrink stir slash
F I too. And this
just as a matter of
changing, some of the, how
many connections are allowed open,
how many do I expect
to be allowed open on
my, on my router? And
now some people have said,
and I have not found
this to be the case,
but some people have said
that when windows XP service
pack two came out that
they were having some problems.
One gentlemen, blogged about this
shit shrink to slash F
H G saying that, you
know, they had locked down
the TCP stack when service
pack two came out and
it was connection attempts that
they would lock down to.
I think 10, and this
was to avoid worms. So
BitTorrent can look like a
worm to you, your TCP
IP stack, or your firewall,
because it's so aggressively opening
at ports, but I haven't
had it go to any
of the links that these
other folks have done trying
to raise the number of
connections that the limit for
connections used to be 65,000
plus and windows XP. And
now apparently it's 10. Have
you had to deal with
any of this? No, I
haven't. We're, we're running a
micro torrent on a server
and that server doesn't have
hasn't complained yet of any
such connection problems. And it's
been, You're running windows 2000
or two windows, 2003. I
would assume not windows XP.
We're running it on 2003.
That's right. We're not running
it on the next page.
I don't know if there's
a difference between the two,
but I have not seen
that to be a problem.
But if you search for
XP service pack two and
BitTorrent limits, there's a lot
of people out there who
insist that you need to
actually go in and patch
your TCP, IP dot SIS.
I've gotten BitTorrent downloads in
of 600, 700 K a
second over Comcast cable modem.
So I have not found
that to be the case
same here. Yeah. Yeah. But
be aware that that might
be one thing. The more
common thing is to just
go in and tweak the
number of connections also supporting
UPNP universal plug and play,
which is a protocol by
which an application can request
a port from your firewall
is a useful thing. Here's,
here's what I know about
this. And I think you
were about to say it
too, which is that a
lot of people consider UPNP
to be a security hole.
They do. Yeah. UPNP means
an application can open a
port. And if you allow
applications to open ports, if
some rogue application wedges itself
in there by some other,
you know, means yeah. By
using UPNP right. We're gonna
have a very polite virus
that requests the port. Yeah.
Right. There you go. So,
you know, if that happens,
then you could be opening
yourself up for a lot
of problems. Yeah. So what
I've done with, with micro
torrent, which is the utility
that you've mentioned, that's at
U torrent.com or shrinks or
slash F zero, a micro
torrent, which I cannot say
enough, nice things about what
a fantastic lease. Just it's
small X copy, deploy, no
install, NEC doesn't crash runs
in the background. It's just
fantastic. It is. This little
tool will tell you whether
or not you have the
appropriate ports forwarded. And I
just picked a high level
port and opened it up
and forwarded it to my,
to my system. Typically, before
version 3.2 BitTorrent used to
use port 68, 81 through
68, 89. And now they've
extended that all the way
up through 69 99, these
are all TCP IP ports
cause bit torn. Isn't using
UDP, but I've just opened
the one port and had
no trouble. Well, you can
open it. You can use
any ports you want. That's
kind of the cool thing
about bit torn is when,
and we're going to get
into what a tracker is,
but when you connect to
a tracker, you tell it
what ports you have open.
And so as long as
your, your, you know, firewall
has those ports open. The
problem there of course, is
that by using nonstandard ports,
you know, other clients may
be attempting to connect when
those outgoing ports are not
allowed on their firewalls. So
That is true. You do
want to have outbound outbound
access, no matter what on
port 69 69, which is
what BitTorrent uses to talk
to a tracker, right? This
is the server that manages
that kind of process. Typically
those are almost always on
69, 69, but you just
need outbound access, right? Nine
times out of 10 though,
a bit torn to work
just fine in your home.
As long as you allow
it on your software firewall
and open at least one
port on your, on your
hardware firewall. Now, an interesting
thing, I don't know whether
you've had this trouble, but
I've, I've been shut down
in three different hotels for,
for running torrents. No, I
don't usually run torrents in
hotels, but maybe that's why.
So this gets to the,
kind of the, the original
point of this whole conversation,
which was this thing called
TV RSS, which I had
mentioned to you before. And
I said, well, we gotta
do a show on this.
Yeah. I have a tendency
to be on the road.
I'll miss a show. And
we've talked about oerb.com and
different ways that I could
connect and stream a show
to myself. But TV, rss.net
shrink, stir slash FHV is
a place where you can
get RSS feeds containing torrents
with copies of the most
recent TV shows popular shows
the West wing, right. You
know, things like that. So
I wanted to download the
daily show and watch it
in high quality video, not
streamed, but just download it
and watch it on the
plane later. Right? So I
started up this torrent and
within 10 minutes, I lost
all connectivity with that network
and they wouldn't give me
DHCP. When I called the
hotel support. They said that
if you open more than
20 ports going out, that
they'll shut you down and
ban your Mac address. Wow.
I convinced the nice lady
to knock that off, stopped
running the torrent. But check
this out. Did a couple
of downloads loaded up my
regular feed reader, VPN into
work and tried to check
my email and got banned
again. So it's not BitTorrent,
it's simply opening 20 ports.
If you are, are a
multitasker, as I am known
to be, you'll get nailed.
So even doing something as
simple as multitasking at this
particular Marriott hotel got me
banned. And that was a
real disappointment. So do be
aware of what you're doing.
This is probably not a
hotel specific thing, more and
more people don't want folks
monopolizing bandwidth with, with torrents.
Yeah. And it may not
be a, a Marriott thing
either. May just be that
the it department and that
particular hotel has that policy.
In this case, they said
that it was the, I
forget the name of the
provider, but it is one
of those providers that you
recognize the name of when
you go to the hotel.
Right. When I dialed the
Marriott extension, they forwarded me
off to it for transport
or whatever the name of
the, the provider was. But
I think that that, that
kind of thing is gonna
happen more and more as
people build that into their
firmware. Like, I don't think
Starbucks wants me to run
a torrent inside of Starbucks.
Yeah. But interestingly, I was
able to get it working
the next day, by going
into the micro torrent and
setting the maximum connections to
10. Right. And just told
micro torrent, don't even try
to talk to more than
10. Now the download was
really slow, but it did
actually happen. And you can
see these ports that you've
got opened by using, you
know, sysinternals great TCP view
utility that we've talked about
before show@shrinksor.com slash F H
H fantastic stuff. They totally
rock. So if you go
to TV, rss.net and download
micro torrent, you just run
it, no install. And you
would set up the RSS
feeds from the RSS PR
preferences section of micro torrent.
And you can set up
a filter, just put the
name of the show you
want. You can put in
like lost or West for
West wing, and it'll do
a wild card search and
it'll download these files. And
these are usually high Def
files. These aren't crappy rips
off of some guys, you
know, cable. This is a
high quality HDTV rip with
commercials removed. And that's where
we start getting into legality.
Right? And then those were
about 300 to 400 megs.
I downloaded the whole series
of a great show. I
watched called how I met
your mother on ABC. And
we discovered it halfway through
the season. We wanted to
catch up, but it wasn't
on DVD. So we went
back to TV, RSS and
grabbed it. And here's the
cool part. And we talked
a little bit about this
in our second or third
show, but once you get
those giant files and you
want to squish them, right,
you want to get them
onto your portable devices. And
I just can't say enough,
nice things about video or
a video or a.com strengthener
slash F H I, this
is a converter of squishy
and there's lots of them
out there, but this has
the friendliest interface and it's
very inexpensive and they have
hardware specific free versions for
the PSP, for the Xbox,
for your TiVo. So I
use this to download these
shows. I squished them using
the Xbox three, three 60
converter, and then I just
copied them over to my
media center. And then watch
them later on the, on
the Xbox with the media
center extender, you can also
squish these for your iPod
or squish them onto your,
onto your PSP. Wow. Using
PSP video nine shrinks.com/v H
N seems complicated. But if
you, if you just kind
of get that workflow, you
set up your feeds at
TV RSS, you get utorrent.com.
You pick the shows you
want. And then when they
come down, you squish them
overnight with video, or it's
a, it's much more intuitive
thing than you would think.
And it makes long plane
rides, really a joy. You
know, there's a great audio
encoder, Rayanne coder out there
called virtual dub. Have you
used virtual Deb? I haven't
virtual dub allows you to
open any ABI file. And
then you can use a
separate wave file you can
use for audio. And it's
great. You know, it's great
for, we use it for
replacing the audio track and
a video. So we, we,
when we do DNR TV,
you know, we have a
somewhat crappy sounding audio track.
And then we go into
Adobe audition and extract the
wave file from the ABI,
you know, extract the audio
into a wave. Then we
do the processing on the
audio and cut out any
coughs and blurps and stuff
like that and make it
louder and noise free. And
then what we do is
we use virtual dub to,
to just use a direct
stream copy mode from the
wave file into the video
and save it as a
new API. And it works
every time, but it can
also take any video and
Kodak and in turn out
any other kind of video
with any other kind of
Kodak in any kind of
size. So, you know, it's,
it's good, it's a free
tool. That's cool. You know,
and, and awareness of, of
these audio formats, these multiple
tracks that you've just brought
up actually fits right into.
If you ever do ripping
of DVDs, you want to
take a DVD that you
on the road with you.
There's an interesting guy to
trickster.com/f H J that talks
about in the ripping process.
You know, DVDs have multiple
layers of audio. You've got
Spanish and French and English
and English 2.0 and English
6.1. You can save a
lot of space by making
sure that you only rip
the audio that you're going
to care about something. A
lot of people forget, and
they wonder why they're their
rips are so huge. And
while they squish poorly, now
speaking, they'll get back to
free content. So if you're,
if you're not feeling that
TV, RSS is for you,
if you are concerned about
the legality of it, there
is a free high definition
TV show that you can
get at Mary Posa, hd.tv.
It's at shrink stir slash
F H L. And this
is a bunch of Americans
who moved to Argentina and
have decided to put on
the Internet's first high definition,
10 ADI, a TV show.
If you've never seen HD
before, maybe you've seen it
at best buy or at
the store. And you want
to see what HD really
looks like. You're probably running
a monitor. That's at least
10 24. You can get
information about the different high
definition video resolutions at shrink
store slash FHQ. But 10
ADI is one of the
highest quality standard definitions that
you would get from hi-def
there's seven 20 P, which
is the one that most
people think of. There's 10
IDI. And then one day
there'll be 10 ADP, The
actual pixel widths and Heights
of those 10 ADI is
what Well, I don't, I
think it's 1980. I think
if you go to shrinks.com/f
1920 or 1980, yeah. 90
and 1920, I think it
is. And if you want
to see this for yourself,
see a high definition TV
show, you can go to
shrinks.com/fhl just download this Mary
Posa TV show. It's mostly
pretty girls and nice scenery
and whatnot around Argentina, it's
modeling and fashion and stuff
like that. They've got a
pretty slick site. They've got
three episodes of this little
TV show. It's kind of
like a travel channel, kind
of a thing, and download
it with micro torrent and
run it using windows media
player, version nine or above.
These are the versions of
windows, media player that support
that high definition, codec compressor.
Decompressors what codex stands for.
And you can experience that
for yourself. It's pretty amazing
to see high Def, especially
on a computer monitor it's
so Chris Micro Torian has
RSS support, but from what
I understood, it was, it
was a little sketchy. Last
time I checked, what, what's
the situation with that? With
the 1.5 that I've been
using? It has been absolutely
the number one best. I
cannot say enough. Nice things
about how awesome this tool
About the RSS support is
what I'm talking about. The
RSS support is fantastic. I
run nine different feeds. It
updates every 15 minutes. I
can say on a per
feed basis or a per
filter basis where I want
stuff saved for the Westwind
goes in that folder. And
DNR TV goes in this
folder. That's great. It's really
very nice support. Especially with
the 1.5 version is the
one you want to look
at. I think it came
out in April. Yeah. We
actually use that in pop
catcher and pop catchers, you
know, as an RSS aggregator
for enclosures, it'll prob pop
catcher, we'll use both HTTP
downloading and micro torrent internally.
So a, the current version
that's out there at
dot com right now, will
you, we'll ask you to
download micro Torian. We have
permission to do this. I've
talked about this before a
little bit, but the version
that's coming up next, we'll
have torn embedded as a
DLL. So goods, There's lots
of great tools out there
to do debt BitTorrent downloads.
You may already be using
some, like, for example, if
you're using get right, get
right.com and say, download a
multiple part downloader, it's a
file downloader, lets you do
pausing and re resuming and
a parallel downloads of large
files there. Six O beta
is adding really good bit
torrent support, including support for
uploads. So if you're already
using a tool like that,
you may see just like
Carlos mentioned that more and
more people are embedding bit
torn into their, into their
programs, just embedding it, using
a library. And I think
that the fact that get
right is getting on board
with that is, is a
fantastic thing. What happened? What's
a, what's up with Warner
brothers. We mentioned them before
and they're they're coming out
with a feed. Are they
not? That's what they say,
but I haven't seen anything
other than the press release.
The idea is that the
day after their shows come
out, they're going to have
them up on the net
to be downloaded. I think
the idea is that someone's
finally explained to the suits
that when you send information
out via TV, it's shouting,
right? It's standing on the
top of the tallest mountain
around your neighborhood and shouting
it out and bit torn
is the same exact thing.
And whether people pick it
up over the air or
they pick it up over
the BitTorrent, they're going to
get it. And you know
what? It actually ends up
saving them money because the,
you know, the they're using
the internet infrastructure that's already
there and they have to
spend less money on their,
on their existing infrastructure. I
think that in the next
year or two, we will
probably see a major TV
show or studio release a
show exclusively on the web
or release it a day
or two before on the
web in order to build
up some buzz like, you
know, release a new version
of some TV show on
Tuesday in order to get
people stoked from us CTV
on Thursday, I think you'll
even see a Microsoft eventually.
I don't know if they're
gonna use BitTorrent, but they
may use their, they've got
a research project called avalanche
that they're working on that
is essentially BitTorrent plus plus.
And I, I, I can't
imagine that they won't be
taking advantage of this for
things like operating system releases
on MSDN and, and other
releases down MSDN. I mean,
have you ever tried downloading
a new version of an
operating system or anything when
it gets released on MSDN?
Forget it. And these guys
have more bandwidth than God.
So yeah. Yeah. I just
downloaded Vista yesterday and I
was, I was single connection
using the Microsoft file transfer
manager. It was like nine
hours to download this DVD.
It was ridiculous. Yeah. So
that's just screaming For a
BitTorrent protocol. Interestingly though, I've
read and I don't know
if this is true or
not, but I've read that
upwards of 30% of the
Internet's traffic now is BitTorrent
traffic. It is a very
chatty protocol. I read it
was more than that. In
fact it wasn't, it was
last year that it made
up the majority of internet,
traffic, surpassing, email and web.
Unfortunately, A lot of that
is stuff people don't own.
And I think that's where
people get worried. I mean,
I personally I'll download a
TV show if I was
going to tape it and
I missed it. You know,
I won't, I won't rip
movies that I don't own.
I'm not going to go
and download a movie off
of the net. Cause you
can go to blockbuster for
a buck, you know? Right.
Also it doesn't, it makes,
it doesn't mean that the
majority of internet users are
BitTorrent users because look at
the sizes of the files
that they're downloading. I mean,
one DVD transferred is how
many emails saying, you know,
even how many spam emails,
you know, thousands, hundreds of
thousands. No, that's a very
good point. My entire year's
email might be a single
DVD. Exactly. So, you know,
you got to put it
into perspective. In fact, my
entire outlook PST compressed is
probably less than a single
DVD. All right. All the
email you've ever you've ever
sent. Right. But unfortunately I
think that the reason that
people download these DVDs illegally
interesting things illegally is, is
more of the, the sense
of they're beating the system
and less that they really
need it. I agree. I
will happily pay for content.
I think the world will
happily pay for content and
that's why I tuned succeeds.
And why iTunes insists that
99 cents is the price of
their stuff. Right. And that
that's a perfectly reasonable price
to sell something for two
bucks for a TV show
or what is it? Two
99 for TV show, fuck
nine, nine. I'm not sure
I haven't got our video
iPod yet. The wife won't
let me do it, but
Hey, one day, you know,
it begs the question. We
talked about this on Mondays
too. It, do you really
want to be watching TV
shows on a postage stamp
size screen? Yeah. The only
times that I can see
that happening as on a
plane or on a commute,
but if I would, I
would say this though, and
I'm on the West coast
and you're on the East.
So you might know more
about this, but if you
were coming into the long
Island railroad, it get pretty
dull coming into Manhattan. You
might want to watch something.
Watch last night's daily show.
That's true. That's very true.
I've taken up to reading
books on planes. Yeah, I
have, I have a commute.
That's one exit. So there's
little that I can do.
Just going up one exit.
I can ride my bike
to work. So, but if
I were taking the train,
taking the, the max train
here, our electric train downtown,
I think I'd probably watch
a half hour show Coming
back from Amsterdam, from the
Netherlands to on the, on
the flight, back in the
airport in Amsterdam, I picked
up the DaVinci code and
I started reading it as
I was waiting for my
plane and I finished it,
you know, right after we
touched on it, I was
literally like 10 pages left
when I was getting walking
off the plane. And I,
you know, I, I didn't
start reading for fun until
I met my wife, you
know, and she's a voracious
reader, but that was a
fun experience. It was especially
cool. Not to have to
worry about gadgets and stuff.
And you know, it's the
simple thing sometimes that we
forget about. See, for me,
the simple things are flying
back from Pittsburgh a couple
of weeks ago, watching a
what the heck movie was
I watching? I forget what
it was, but I was
watching a movie that I
squished on at the PSP
in my, my battery on
my laptop had long died
my two hour battery life
on my big heat sink
of an IBM laptop. And
I watched that, that, that
movie. And I watched actually,
I think I watched two
back-to-back movies and a TV
show. I didn't even think
about the battery life on
my PSP, like my PlayStation
portable. And for me, that's
the simple things, not having
to worry about battery life.
So there are some other
sites that are, that are
out there to support the
PSP for this kind of
stuff. Yeah. PSP video nine
at shrink stir slash F
H N gives you a
video or a squishier that
will put a video into
a format that the PSP
can understand. And if you're
going to be downloading video
via BitTorrent onto a, your
system, you might want to
tweak some of the speeds.
And there's a number of
sites that give you tips
on how to get the
most out of your bandwidth.
One of them is at
tweaking bit torn speeds. It's
shrink, stir.com/f four. And of
course my optimizations page at
. Okay. The number one
mistake that people make when
they're setting up BitTorrent is
not forwarding that at least
one port to allow someone
to connect to your system
from the, from the inside,
as soon as the swarm
notices, you're not contributing, they
will lower your speed Then.
Yeah, the, the, the leaching
is the biggest problem in,
and I see that now.
I mean, we have how
many thousands of people that
download our shows, including this
one with BitTorrent. And yet
we still never have more
than 50 or 60 Cedars
at a time. The rule
of thumb is to keep
the torrent open, at least
as long as you had
it open before. So if
it took you an hour
to download, keep it open
for an hour, even twice
as long just to give
back. And that makes sure
that everyone will get a
piece of the show. Yeah.
Isn't there a setting in
micro Tarrant where you can
tell it how long to
keep the, to keep seeding
after downloading. Yeah. There's the
notion of a ratio. So
if you've downloaded a hundred
percent, maybe you want to
upload a hundred percent or
150%. So you can set
that in the preferences of
micro torrent and say that
my seating goal is 150%
of what I downloaded. And
then you can set it
to either limit the speed
by throttling or by actually
stopping the torrent after it's
reached its seating goal. Nice.
So if you had a
lot of stuff you wanted
to download, you could just
set the ratio that you
want and it'll automatically throttle
them back or stop them
as they go. And that's
a nice way to stagger
your downloads, making sure that
you're giving back as well
as receiving the files that
you want to go. And
let's, let's end with a
concise synopsis of how BitTorrent
works at how stuff works.
Dot com a bit torn
HTM. It shrinks to.com/f H
S a good overview of
how BitTorrent works. And thank
you very much for sharing
Your knowledge with us and
experience. And as for you,
dear listener, we will talk
to you next week on
Hansel minutes.